The lower back pain has many causes, from maintained bad postures, direct 
trauma to Disc hernia. Mechanical low back pain (LBP) is the second most 
common reason for seeing a physician in the United States. Of the US 
population, 85% will experience an episode of mechanical LBP at some point 
during their lifetime. Fortunately, the LBP resolves for the vast majority 
within 2-4 weeks. Sometimes it may complicate with a sciatic nerve 
inflammation. On the other hand, a herniated disc may produce a root nerve 
compression at a given level of the spine that causes an inflammation of 
the nerves and radiated pain to the arms or legs depending on the level of 
compression. If this compression progresses, meaning, gets worse over the 
time, it can produce irreversible damage of the nerve root, then the 
discectomy is performed to decompress the nerve root involved so the 
neurological symptoms (numbness, tingling and pain local and radiated to 
the legs) improve and also avoid further damage to the nerve. The first 
treatment for a herniated disk is a short period of rest with pain and 
anti-inflammatory medications, followed by physical therapy. Most people 
who follow these treatments will recover and return to their normal 
activities. A small number of people need to have further treatment, which 
may include steroid injections or surgery. Changes in your lifestyle are a 
must, like diet and exercise are crucial to improving back pain by 
controlling weight .Physical therapy is important for nearly everyone with 
disk disease. Therapists will tell you how to properly lift, dress, walk, 
and perform other activities. They will work on strengthening the muscles 
that help support the spine. You will also learn flexibility of the spine 
and legs. Steroid injections into the back in the area of the herniated 
disk may help control pain for several months. Such injections reduce 
swelling around the disk and relieve many symptoms. Spinal injections are 
usually done on an outpatient basis. 