Usually the treatment of patellar fractures is determined by displacement. 
Non displaced fractures are typically treated without surgery (conservative 
treatment) by splinting the knee in extension (straight) for 4 to 6 weeks. 
Since the patella does not bear weight, there is no weight bearing 
restriction. Crutches, canes, or a walker may be used to aid in walking. 
Exercise of other leg muscles is encouraged while wearing the splint. After 
4 to 6 weeks when the fracture is considered healed, physical therapy to 
regain range of motion is begun. In your case if you had a displaced 
fracture, then displaced fractures of the patella are treated surgically to 
stabilize the fragments. Metal pins, screws, wires, or plates may be used 
to hold pieces of bone together. Following surgery, the knee usually will 
be immobilized in a brace. Weight bearing and walking are permitted as 
tolerated as soon as possible after surgery. Exercises to strengthen 
important muscles of the leg are begun immediately and range of motion 
exercises are begun at 4 to 6 weeks after surgery. A healed fracture and a 
strong quadriceps muscle permit a return to vigorous activity in 6 months. 
Outcomes of surgery to repair displaced patellar fractures vary according 
to the type of fracture, other associated medical conditions, and the 
operative technique used. Partial excision of the patella may result in 
some loss of motion, but results appear to improve when as much of the 
original patella as possible is retained. Once the fracture is healed, 
exercises are continued until strength is restored in the knee joint, a 
normal gait is observed, and full function returns. A home program should 
be taught to complement supervised rehabilitation and to be continued after 
the completion of physical therapy. In the view that you have followed all 
of the above and still have some limitation I suggest to continue with 
occupational therapy and the exercise routine that you do at home. I also 
recommend an ergonomic assessment of your workplace and home to see if some 
adaptation may be done in order to help you with the recovery process. 