Both ligaments ACL and PCL are very important to stabilize the knee joint 
backwards and forwards, the lateral ones stabilize it side to side, the 
menisci give cushion between femur and tibia, and the synovial fluid 
lubricates all the surfaces minimizing the friction during the movements, 
so as you can see every element is important for the correct function of 
the knee joint. According to the description of your problem, it might be 
important to rule out also a Meniscus lesion. The menisci are C-shaped 
wedges of fibro cartilage located between the tibia and femur, and very 
close related to knee ligaments and attached also to the joint capsule. 
They are susceptible to get injured with leg rotation movements or 
rotational forces applied to them, and the lesion produced can be partial 
or complete tear. Meniscus injuries are common in active people as you, who 
are involved in sporting or physical activities. Pain along with locking or 
buckling are common symptoms after a meniscus lesion develops. Locking 
usually occurs at 20-45° of joint extension. A more reliable indicator of 
meniscus lesion is a click, pop or snaps after the joint unlocks, it can 
be or not associated with pain. On the other hand, knee pain is the most 
common presentation of patellofemoral syndrome. The pain typically is 
located behind the kneecap and often shows during activities that require 
knee flexion and forceful contraction of the quadriceps (ei, during squats, 
bicycle, ascending/descending stairs, jogging or pendants). Pain may be 
worsen by sitting with the knee flexed for a long period of time, such as 
while watching a movie, hence leading to the terms "theatre sign" and 
"movie-goer's knee." The suggested strategy for conservative treatment 
should be as follows: Physical therapy program (exercises and pain control 
with TENS, ultrasound, ice packs after exercises), anti-inflammatory 
medication (i.e.: “Aleve”, “Advil”), education so you understand which 
activities avoid because those can aggravate patellofemoral syndrome. Also, 
and very important, remark the need for extended adherence to the exercise 
regimen. The physical therapist should educate you about a home exercise 
program. 