Your description most likely corresponds to a Temporo Mandibular Disorder 
(TMD), or temporomandibular joint syndrome, this is the most common cause 
of facial pain after toothache. Temporomandibular disorder is a commonly 
seen condition in primary care and dentistry practice, as many as 75% of 
the people in the United States population will at some time have some of 
the signs and symptoms of TMD. Problems in this area can cause head and 
neck pain, a jaw that is locked in position or difficult to open, problems 
biting, and popping/cracking sounds when you bite. The causes are various: 
grinding the teeth (bruxism), clenching the jaw, punch to the jaw (like in 
your case), osteoarthritis or degenerative joint diseases, and other joint 
diseases. Most temporomandibular disorders (TMDs) are self-limiting and do 
not get worse. Simple treatment, involving self-care practices, 
rehabilitation aimed at eliminating muscle spasms, and restoring correct 
coordination, is all that is required. Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory 
medications (NSAIDs) should be used on a short-term, regular basis and not 
on an as needed basis, eat soft food, apply warm compresses on the area of 
pain. Home therapy includes mandible (lower jaw) movements, such as opening 
and closing the jaw from side to side. Try this after a warm compress is 
applied for 20 minutes. The lower jaw movements should be repeated three to 
five times a day, five minutes continuously each time, for about two to 
four weeks. On the other hand, treatment of chronic TMD can be difficult 
and the condition is best managed by a team approach; a primary care 
physician, a dentist, a physiotherapist, a psychologist, a pharmacologist, 
and in small number of cases, a surgeon. The different modalities include 
patient education and self-care practices, medication, physical therapy, 
splints, psychological counseling, relaxation techniques, biofeedback, 
hypnotherapy, acupuncture, and arthrocentesis. Arthroscopic surgery is 
indicated in the following: internal derangements, adhesions, fibrosis, and 
degenerative joint diseases. 