The diagnosis of Autoimmune disorders is a very difficult and stressful 
process. Although each autoimmune disease is unique, many share some of the 
same symptoms. And many symptoms of autoimmune diseases are the same for 
other types of health problems too. This makes it hard for doctors to find 
out if you really have an autoimmune disease, and which one it might be. 
But if you are having symptoms that bother you, it's important to find the 
cause. You can also see another doctor and look for a second or thrird 
opinion after you have all the results of the tests. Although each disease 
is distinctive, many share hallmark symptoms, such as fatigue, dizziness, 
and low-grade fever. For many autoimmune diseases, symptoms come and go, or 
can be mild sometimes and severe at others. When symptoms go away for a 
while, it's called remission. Flares are the sudden and severe onset of 
symptoms. Regarding the ESR (sed rate) , this blood test measures how many 
red blood cells (erythrocytes) settle at the bottom of a test tube in one 
hour. When inflammation is present red blood cells can stick together and 
fall more quickly than normal to the bottom of the tube. This test is very 
non-specific, a high sed rate indicates inflammation but not the cause or 
location. On the other hand, the ANA test is part of the lab tests panel to 
screen Autoimmune Disorders, and is most likely used as one of the tests to 
diagnose Systemic Lupus Erythematosus (SLE). The ANA test is ordered when 
there are symptoms and signs associated with SLE or other Auto immune 
Disorder such as: low-grade fever, joint pain, fatigue, unexplained rashes 
changing over the time. Different techniques are used to perform ANA in 
the lab, the most common are: ELISA and indirect immunofluorescence. The 
results are reported as “titer”, and when positive, with a specific 
immunofluorescence pattern. In the case that you described, titers of 1:320 
and more are considered positive, with a Centromere pattern, which means 
peripheral, may be associated with Scleroderma and CREST (calcinosis, 
Raynaud’s syndrome, Esophageal dysmotility, Sclerodactyly, Telangiectasia). 
Persons with scleroderma have ANA positive in about 60%-90%. In persons 
only with Raynaud’s disease, Rheumatoid arthritis, dermatomyosits, 
polimyositis, mixed connective tissue diseases a positive result of ANA may 
seen too. ANA can be found in persons with infections(mononucleosis), 
cancer, lung diseases and in approximately 5% of the normal population. As 
you can see the test is just one piece of information that should be 
interpreted along with the clinical symptoms and other tests. ANA results 
may be affected also by age and some medications. 