The Frozen shoulder treatment basically try to relieve the pain by using 
several treatment modalities. The entire treatment process can take several 
months or longer. Your case is not easy because you have already gone 
through many of those treatment options and now you have to be treated as a 
chronic pain patient. The anti depressants are used as part of the 
medications prescribed to manage chronic pain ,some of the older categories 
of antidepressants may be very helpful in controlling pain; specifically 
the tricyclic antidepressants. The pain relieving properties of these 
medications are such that they can relieve pain in doses that are lower 
than the doses needed to treat depression. These medications are not meant 
to be taken on an "as needed" basis but must be taken every day whether or 
not you have pain. Your doctor may attempt to lessen some of the side 
effects, particularly sedation, by having you take these medications at 
night. There are some other side effects like dry mouth that can be treated 
with drinking water or fluids, but besides this, there are other 
alternatives like Cognitive-behavioral therapy which allows people to 
"learn and have a better understanding of what the pain is from, and what 
they can do about it. This therapy is really about understanding the role 
of pain in your life and what it actually means for you. A variety of 
approaches may help you to deal with the pain: TENS therapy, Meditation, 
Relaxation techniques, heat and cold therapy, manipulation and massage. 
Finally, there are interventional techniques that involve injections into 
or around various levels of the spinal region. These can involve relatively 
superficial injections into the painful muscles, called trigger point 
injections, or may involve more invasive procedures. There are multiple 
procedures that range from epidural injections for pain involving the neck 
and arm or the back and leg, facet injections into the joints that allow 
movement of the neck and back. 