I suggest you avoiding overstress on the knees, it is very important 
before to do any exercise or straining physical activity to have an initial 
warm-up and stretching of the muscles, also when you start an exercise 
routine the demands have to be progressive and gradual, and the time and 
days that you dedicate to exercise must be consistent and regular to avoid 
injuries. There is a very well described entity in the medical literature 
called: Overuse Syndrome, which can affect any part of the body that is 
over stressed with movements or activities in a repetitive way, including 
occupational, recreational, and habitual activities. Repetition is part of 
the definition of overuse injury. The concept is that overuse injury is 
associated with repeated challenge without sufficient recovery time, and 
this is true for Body Building, Running, Jogging or any other sport or 
activity in which you exceed the guidelines and your own limits or 
capacities. One of the most common causes of knee pain in persons of your 
age group: Patellofemoral syndrome or Chondromalacia patella. The pain 
typically is located behind/under the kneecap and often shows during 
activities that require knee flexion and forceful contraction of the 
quadriceps (e.g, running, during squats, bicycle, ascending/descending 
stairs or pendants). Pain may be worsen by sitting with the knee flexed 
(“indian style”) for a long period of time, such as while watching a movie, 
hence leading to the terms "theatre sign" and "movie-goer's knee." The 
causes are diverse: Overuse (repetitive use or activity), overloading, and 
misuse of the patellofemoral joint. The suggested strategy for conservative 
treatment should be as follows: Physical therapy program (exercises and 
pain control with TENS, ultrasound, ice packs after exercises), 
anti-inflammatory medication (i.e.: “Aleve”, “Advil”), education so you 
understand which activities avoid because those can aggravate 
patellofemoral syndrome. Also, and very important, remark the need for 
extended adherence to the exercise regimen. The physical therapist should 
educate you about a home exercise program Allow time for these conservative 
measures (e.g.: exercise program) to have an effect , usually 4-6 weeks is 
adequate for some resolution of symptoms. 