In the view of your past medical history of 2 knee surgeries for ligaments 
injuries and your occupation, which requires frequent squatting and 
kneeling, also you mentioned a popping sound of your knees, then it sounds, 
most likely as a Meniscus Problem. Meniscus injuries are a common cause of 
knee pain; they are the most frequent injury to the knee joint. The menisci 
are C -shaped fibrocartilaginous structures attached to the tibia and their 
main functions to enhance the contact between the two articular surfaces of 
the knee: femur and tibia ones. The thick outline of menisci allows for a 
firm attachment to the joint capsule. Based on your imaging report, you 
have osteoarthritis and intraarticular bodies presents, these come from a 
meniscus tear. Sometimes we can wait spontaneous healing of the meniscus 
lesions because of the rich blood supply in the meniscal periphery. 
Successful recovery from a meniscal tear is helped by a gradual resolution 
of symptoms over 6 weeks with a return to normal activity by 3 months. Many 
meniscal tears heal spontaneously. Also, can be treated with casting 
depending of the severity of the tear. With time the symptoms improve. If 
this does not happen, because you have intrarticular bodies in the joint 
space, then the surgical option may be considered, and definitely after 
surgery you will experience a significant improvement of all the symptoms. 
In the meantime, you could use anti-inflammatory medication (as 
“Aleve”,”Motrin”) to control pain, if you have any. On the other hand 
another common cause of knee problems when people have to squat and kneel 
often is the Patello Femolar Syndrome or Patella Chodromalacia. The pain 
typically is located behind/below the kneecap and often shows during 
activities that require knee flexion and forceful contraction of the quads 
(ei, during squats, bicycle, ascending/descending stairs, jogging or 
pendants, prolonged kneeling). Pain may be worsen by sitting with the knee 
flexed for a long period of time, such as while watching a movie, hence 
leading to the terms "theatre sign" and "movie-goer's knee." The causes are 
diverse: Overuse (repetitive use or activity), overloading, and misuse of 
the patellofemoral joint. The suggested strategy for conservative treatment 
should be as follows: Physical therapy program (exercises and pain control 
with TENS, ultrasound, ice packs after exercises), anti-inflammatory 
medication (i.e.: “Aleve”, “Advil”), education so you understand which 
activities avoid because those can aggravate patellofemoral syndrome. Also, 
and very important, remark the need for extended adherence to the exercise 
regimen and keep your weight under control so you do not put additional 
stress in the knee joints. The physical therapist should educate you about 
a home exercise program. Allow time for these conservative measures (ei: 
exercise program) to have an effect, usually 4-6 weeks is adequate for some 
resolution of symptoms. 