In the view of the lack of data in your question, you do not specify if it 
was reduced, if it was anterior or posterior, neither complicated nor 
uncomplicated or how it was produced. I will respond with an overview of 
Hip dislocations. Hip dislocations are traumatic or congenital, anterior or 
posterior, with posterior hip dislocations comprising the majority of 
traumatic dislocations. Often present with obvious severe pain in the hip 
region and upper leg, also knee, lower leg, or even back pain. Usually the 
main complain is the inability to walk or move the leg about the hip joint. 
May be associated complain of numbness and/or tingling in the legs in cases 
involving neurovascular damage. Regarding the treatment, acutely after 
successful reduction, resting and icing the hip and taking 
anti-inflammatory and/or narcotic medications to reduce pain are helpful. 
For type 1 (without fractures) posterior dislocations, you may return to 
weight bearing as pain allows. Type 2-5 posterior dislocations and anterior 
dislocations may require longer times to achieve weight bearing. Hip joints 
with associated fractures and/or instability are placed in a hip abduction 
brace postoperatively, which keeps the hip in abduction and slight external 
rotation for optimal healing, while allowing controlled (limited) flexion 
and extension. Within 5-7 days of the injury, you can perform passive 
range-of-motion exercises with or without assistance in order to maintain 
normal flexibility (pendulum exercises). Consult an orthopedic surgeon, who 
should be present when attempting a closed reduction. If the closed 
reduction is unsuccessful, you will need to go to the operating room for an 
open reduction. Usually, keeping an unstable hip reduced with traction 
while awaiting surgical intervention is helpful (a post reduction hip 
should be held in traction for 6-8 weeks or until the leg is pain free). A 
CT scan is typically obtained before proceeding to the operating room as a 
guide. 