Most likely the pain in the shoulder and lower back may be occupational, 
meaning related to repetitive working activities. Mechanical low back pain 
(LBP) is the second most common reason for seeing a physician in the United 
States. Of the US population, 85% will experience an episode of mechanical 
LBP at some point during their lifetime. Fortunately, the LBP resolves for 
the vast majority within 2-4 weeks. Sometimes it may complicate with a 
sciatic nerve inflammation and the healing process takes a little longer. 
Mechanical or activity-related spinal pain is most often aggravated by 
static loading of the spine (prolonged sitting or standing), long-lever 
activities (vacuuming or working with the arms elevated and away from the 
body, as your case), and levered postures (forward bending of the lumbar 
spine). Pain is reduced when walking or constantly changing positions, and 
when the spine is unloaded (reclining). However, a persistent, relenting 
pain requires further investigation, as follows: evaluation by a physician, 
imaging studies (MRI, CT scan) and sometimes even functional studies as 
electromyography. There are several causes of shoulder pain; one of the 
most common is the Rotator Cuff tendinitis and this seems to correspond 
with your case. The rotator cuff is a group of tendons that support the 
shoulder. These tendons can be injured during lifting, when playing sports 
with a lot of throwing, after repetitive use over a long time or suffer 
degenerative changes with the aging process. Typically, presents with an 
activity related dull ache in the upper outer arm and shoulder. Activity is 
commonly more difficult and painful above the shoulder level (more than 90 
degrees). There is little or no discomfort with below-shoulder-level 
activities (less than 90 degrees) such as golf, bowling, gardening, 
writing, or typing. But, tennis, baseball/softball, basketball, swimming, 
and painting are more problematic and painful. The suggested treatment 
strategy for you should include: keep you weight under strict control in 
that way you do not overstress your lower back, a physical therapy program 
aimed to: teach you flexion and extension exercises of the spine to reduce 
the nerve tension, exercises that improve the muscular strength and 
endurance of lumbar muscles. Also is very important to keep a good posture 
at all times and practice low-impact activities such as swimming, walking, 
and bicycling can increase overall fitness without straining the low back. 
Standing: While standing, keep your head up and stomach pulled in. If you 
are required to stand for long periods of time, you should have a small 
stool on which to rest one foot at a time. The pain control and 
inflammation reduction can be accomplished with a combination of relative 
rest, icing (20 min, 3-4 times per day), and anti-inflammatory medication 
(“Aleve”). You can sleep with a pillow between the trunk and arm to 
decrease tension on the shoulder (supraspinatus tendon) and to prevent 
blood flow compromise in its watershed region. It is strongly recommended 
continue the pain control techniques at home, work, or vacation as part of 
the exercise program. The home exercise program builds on itself through 
each phase of the rehabilitation process, and carry-over should be 
monitored. Corticosteroids injection locally can be considered if there is 
no significant improvement after follow the conservative treatment. 