Muscle cramps are extremely common, and nearly everyone experiences a 
cramp at some time in their life. Cramps are common in adults and become 
increasingly frequent with aging. However, children also experience cramps. 
Any of the muscles that are under our voluntary control (skeletal muscles) 
can cramp. Cramps of the extremities, especially the legs and feet, and 
most particularly the calf (the classic "charley horse"), are very common. 
Muscle cramps are felt to be caused by excessively excited nerves that 
stimulate the muscles. This can occur particularly after injury to nerve 
and/or muscle; dehydration with low blood levels of calcium, magnesium, or 
potassium; from certain medications; and even at rest. The pain that is 
associated with muscle cramps that are caused by poor circulation to the 
legs that worsens with walking is referred to as claudication. Deficiencies 
of certain vitamins or minerals, including iron deficiency, thiamine (B1), 
pantothenic acid (B5), and pyridoxine(B6), can also cause muscle 
cramps.Muscle cramps usually cause a temporary nuisance and typically 
resolve on their own without treatment. When muscle cramps continually 
recur, it is time to seek an evaluation by a physician. The primary 
treatment of muscle cramps involves methods to relax the affected muscle. 
This typically involves stretching, massage, and heat application. Other 
treatments are directed toward the underlying cause of the muscle cramps 
and can include rehydration, electrolyte repletion, hormone treatment, 
calcium supplementation. Most cramps can be stopped if the involved muscle 
can be stretched. For many cramps of the feet and legs, this stretching can 
often be accomplished by standing up and walking around. For a calf muscle 
cramp, the person can stand about 2-2½ feet from a wall (possibly farther 
for a tall person) and lean into the wall to place the forearms against the 
wall with the knees and back straight and the heels in contact with the 
floor. Another technique involves flexing the ankle by pulling the toes up 
toward the head while still lying in bed with the leg as straight as 
possible. Gently massaging the muscle will often help it to relax, as will 
applying warmth from a heating pad or hot soak. If the cramp is associated 
with fluid loss, as is often the case with vigorous physical activity, 
fluid and electrolyte (especially sodium and potassium) replacement is 
essential. Medicines are not generally needed to treat an ordinary cramp 
that is active since most cramps subside spontaneously before enough 
medicine would be absorbed to even have an effect. 