Osteonecrosis occurs when your bones lose their blood supply. The bones die 
and eventually collapse, leading to pain and arthritis. Although it can 
occur in any bone, osteonecrosis most commonly affects the hip, the upper 
arm bone, knees, shoulders, and ankles. Osteonecrosis can be caused by an 
injury (traumatic) or can occur spontaneously (non-traumatic). Traumatic 
osteonecrosis is the most common. The blood flow to a part of bone can be 
affected if the bone is fractured or the joint becomes dislocated. 
Non-traumatic osteonecrosisoccurs without direct trauma or injury. The most 
common causes are high doses of corticosteroids, especially when given for 
long periods of time, and chronic alcohol use. More rarely, several 
conditions or procedures have been linked to osteonecrosis: certain blood 
disorders, liver disease, tumors, radiotherapy, chemotherapy, decompression 
sickness (in divers who surface too quickly), dialysis, and organ 
transplants. In about 20% of patients the cause remains unknown (idiopathic 
osteonecrosis). Your son's doctor may do certain tests to diagnose 
osteonecrosis. X-rays scans look normal at early stages of the disease; 
only later in evolution do bone damage and osteoarthritis become evident on 
X-ray images. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) is the most sensitive method 
for diagnosing osteonecrosis because it shows diseased areas that are not 
yet causing any symptoms. The goal in treating osteonecrosis is to improve 
the patient’s use of the affected joint, stop further damage, and ensure 
bone and joint survival. Nonsurgical treatment may relieve pain or help in 
the short term. Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, such as aspirin or 
ibuprofen, may help relieve pain and inflammation associated with 
osteonecrosis. Reducing weight bearing on the affected bones, by using 
canes, crutches or a walker, may slow the damage caused by osteonecrosis 
and permit natural healing. They can help protect the joint until surgery. 
Range-of-motion exercises may be useful to keep the affected joints mobile 
and increase their range of motion. Electrical stimulation can be used to 
induce bone growth, either during surgery, applied directly to the damaged 
area, or through electrodes attached to the skin. Most people with 
osteonecrosis will eventually need surgery. There are a number of surgical 
procedures that slow or stop progression of the disorder. 