Once that it is performed, it is not likely that the release surgery can be 
reversed. What you need now is to focus in the treatment of your newly 
diagnosed Thoracic outlet syndrome, which probably is producing the 
symptoms that you described in your arm and hand. Thoracic outlet syndrome 
is a group of disorders that occur when the blood vessels or nerves in the 
thoracic outlet — the space between your collarbone and your first rib — 
become compressed. This can cause pain in your shoulders and neck and 
numbness in your fingers. Treatment for thoracic outlet syndrome usually 
involves physical therapy and pain relief measures. Most people improve 
with these conservative approaches. In some cases, however, your doctor may 
recommend surgery. If conservative treatments don't improve your symptoms 
or if you're experiencing signs of significant nerve damage, worsening 
muscle weakness or incapacitating pain, your doctor may recommend surgery. 
Your doctor also may recommend surgery if you've been diagnosed with true 
neurogenic thoracic outlet syndrome, for which surgery is often the only 
treatment option, and for certain blood vessel complications, such as 
obstructed blood flow (occlusion) or ballooning of a portion of an artery 
(aneurysm) due to weakness in the wall of the blood vessel. Surgery is 
usually effective in relieving pain associated with thoracic outlet 
syndrome. It may not be as successful in treating muscle weakness, 
especially if the condition has gone untreated for an extended period. A 
specialist in thoracic surgery or vascular surgery will perform the 
procedure. Thoracic outlet syndrome left untreated can cause permanent 
nerve damage; however, surgery to treat thoracic outlet syndrome is 
considered risky. This is because the procedure involves dividing a muscle 
in the neck and removing a portion of the first rib or repairing the 
brachial plexus nerves. For this reason, most doctors initially recommend a 
conservative treatment approach. If you're diagnosed with thoracic outlet 
syndrome, your doctor or physical therapist will instruct you on exercises 
to do at home to strengthen and support the muscles surrounding your 
thoracic outlet. In general, to avoid unnecessary stress on your shoulders 
and muscles surrounding the thoracic outlet: Keep good posture at all 
times, take frequent breaks at work and also try to practice relaxation 
techniques. 