A prostate needle biopsy is a surgical procedure in which a small sample of tissue is removed from the prostate gland and examined under the microscope by a pathologist, a doctor specializing in identifying disease through the study of cells, tissue and organs. 

The procedure takes about 15 minutes and is usually performed in the urologists office in conjunction with transrectal ultrasound (TRUS), a procedure that uses sound waves to create a video image of the prostate gland . No anesthetic is required. With the help of TRUS, a doctor guides a biopsy gun -- a hand-held device with a spring-loaded, slender needle -- through the wall of the rectum into the area of the prostate gland that appears abnormal. 

The rectal wall is thin, so it is possible to place the needle more accurately and with less injury to other tissues. When activated, the needle can remove a slender cylinder of tissue (about 1/2" by 1/16"), called a core, in a fraction of a second. Biopsy needles are tiny -- only 1.2 millimeters in diameter and less than 1/2" long -- and very precise. A sliding sheath opens once the needle enters the prostate, closes onto a sample of tissue and the needle is withdrawn. 
A sextant (six-part) biopsy is the most common prostate biopsy procedure. An average of six cores are taken from the prostate (top, middle and bottom; right and left sides) to get a representative sample of the prostate gland and determine the extent of any cancer. 

The results of the biopsy are not available immediately following the procedure. The tissue samples must examined by a pathologist, who then generates a report of the findings. 

It is normal to expect some minor bleeding after needle biopsy, because the needle has entered areas that contain small veins. Blood in the urine, semen and with bowel movements may occur intermittently for a few days and possibly for a few weeks. The two primary risks of needle biopsy are severe bleeding and infection of the prostate gland or urinary tract. These risks are very rare, occurring in less than 1 percent of patients.

Good Luck! 