Thats a hard one. It depends alot on what it is that u stress about. I for one stress on Damn near everything lol... and my stress brings panic attacks. Those are never any fun. I have tried lots of things and i do a variety of activities to help keep my stress levels down. I live in a town where ppl pay lots of money to go to the Doms to Meditate. Meditating does help but only if u know how too. listening to New Age music while doing a hobbie works great, Finding a quite place to rest and relax is great. I do a trick that may help u. I have a weak heart and sometimes when stress gets high my heart rate goes sky high and it feels as though its gonna explode outta my chest! Heres something that u should try. I do it maybe 3 times a day. Go to a quite spot. Either your room, under a tree, where ever u are comfy at. Sit indian style and take your right hand and wrap it under your left wrist. Grip it until u feel your heart beat with 2 fingers. Close your eyes and consentrate on that heart beat. Dont think any bad things. Think of things that are peacful to YOU! Do that for 3-5 mins. then stop thinking and put your mind on your heart beating. Now think of your heart beat slowing down. By doing this u can slow your heart rate down enough so that u will be okay. Make sure that during the day you are drinking enough water... if u dont like water drink tea but the idea is to not have so much Caffine. It sounds like u might have Anxiety attacks and those are no fun some doctors try to give medicine for it but I dont take meds of ANY kind and never have. I have learned how to handle it. Try also taking time out for YOU every day. that means Alone... take a walk, pray, read, do whatever u like to do. I like to paint or do art. Find something that u enjoy doing and do it alone. If your problem gets worse tho, u might wanna do see a doctor if ur into that kinda stuff. Personally Im not... but thats just me. Another thing that is good is to talk about your problems to someone. Not a shrink pre-say but a friend. Someone u trust, that will be supportive of ur problems, someone that may not no the answers to your situations but can at least lend a caring ear. I find that even tho i dont have anyone to talk to and i normaly talk to my cat lol or stuffed animal, i can pretty much resolve any problem that i have just by releasing that stress off my shoulder so that i can think about my problem and fix it! Find a friend... or a total stranger.. even me lol... it dont matter just find someone and prattle off to them all thats wrong in ur world and u will feel SOOOO much better. And do it on a day to day bases if u can. Or if u dont wanna share ur problems with others keep a day to day log.Sometimes just finding out *Why* u stress and what causes it is enough to solve it! This will help u on ur more sain days to look back at what the stress problem was that built u up so bad to make u not so happy and then u can resolve it then or just keep a mental note in ur head on things that stress u out. Its a big world we live in... its not easy. Try what i do every day and also but a note book and keep it with u at all times. Finding a friend is also great. Good luck to you. and I hope this has helped u 