hi. i am 52" and for a while was very self-conscious about my height. i felt short and stout (like a teapot!) and wanted for the world to be taller, even if it was just an inch or two! it didnt help that my female cousins were over 6 feet tall, and that i am big fans of Takarazuka, a musical theater company in Japan, where are all my favorite actresses are tall (at least 57") and slender.
I felt very bad and looked online for solutions. There are websites that sell growth hormones and other drugs.
However, these are not good for you. They damage your bones & cartilage and could lead to long-term health effects. Thats assuming that they do work. Most of the time they dont! My friends neighbor tried it but it did not help at all.
Height is not something you can change, but you can change your attitude about it. I used to feel bad, but now, I dont anymore! I really dont mind at all.
Are you a male or female? For females, its OK not to be tall like a model. There are benefits too, like you dont have to feel awkward when slow-dancing with a guy, and you can feel cute and petite (come on! dont roll your eyes, its true.) For example, Eva Longoria on Desperate Housewives is the shortest person in the cast at only 52" but she is hot!
If youre a male, you also do not need to worry. Lots of people think short guys are less imposing or something, but in the end its personality that counts. Tom Cruise is relatively short, but hes one of the hottest celebrities out there. I have some male college professors that are shorter than 52" but they have perfectly successful careers and families. Just be yourself! You can prove to people that youre cool, no matter what height you are.
Plus, Ive noticed that guys who are not extremely tall tend to look better when dancing. Just noticed. :-)
Its not how you look, its the things you do that define you. So hope you wont worry too much about getting taller; what will be will be. However, you can maximize what your hereditary traits are by sleeping well and eating healthy balanced diet and exercising. Youre only 16 so you still have time to grow in a healthy way. Dont go for some quack medicine cause thatll just mess up your system even worse. 
Take care now! 