One cause for those symptoms is that your minerals go out of balance.  You need: sodium, potassium, calcium and magnesium to be in balance, as they control the water content in and out of cells.  When they are out of balance, the cells "leak" water into the blood, causing high blood pressure, which in turn can cause severe headaches.

Too much salt (sodium) is one problem.  Too litte potassium is another.  Potassium is used by our bodies to metabolize sugar; that means that everytime you eat sugar, you body uses potassium.  If theres not enough in your food, it pulls it from your body.  Traditional knowledge says that bananas are a good source, but they have only about a third of the potassium in a potato.  If you are on a low-carb diet and avoiding potatoes, try making potato water.  Slice (with skin) a potato very thin and leave it in a glass of water overnight.  In the morning, drink the water.  Potassium is soluble in water which is why they always tell you not to throw out the water after cooking potatoes.

Another important mineral is magnesium, which is high in almonds and buckwheat (as used in pancakes).  I take a magnesium supplement at night, so it has time to be absorbed.  It relaxes twitching muscles, is given to people who have had heart attacks to decrease their probability of having another one. It is great for helping you to fall asleep. 

Calcium is in milk and dairy products.  It also has tryptophan, an amino acid that helps produce serotonin.  Serotonin helps "settle" the mind, gets rid of the chatter that goes on, helps you to sleep and relieves depression.  Theres a lot of tryptophan in turkey, which is why you feel sleepy after a big Thanksgiving meal.

I used to have major sleep problems - was even diagnosed with narcolepsy at one point.  Now, mostly I sleep very well.  A good nights sleep also goes a long way to preventing headaches and high blood pressure.

Also, avoid artificial sweeteners, as these contain a lot of the amino acid that makes epinephrine, like adrenalin in the body.  The concentration is so high, and the absorption so quick (especially in soda) that your body cant break it down to other, less "alarming" things.  You could be getting headaches from being on a constant alert.

Hope this helps.  Good luck to you. 