People who know HOW MUCH, I use to smoke, always assume that I am for the legalization of it. This could NOT be further from the truth, with little exception.

I can agree to medical use and for things such as rope, clothing, etc., however, I DO NOT support legalizing it for general purpose uses.

I always hear people defending it, sayinig it is safer than either alcohol and cigarettes. Well, I found this from the U.S. Navy. Read it for yourself and you decide;

Marijuana contains more than 400 known toxins and cancer-causing chemicals, which are stored in fat cells for as long as several months. Smoking one marijuana cigarette deposits four times more tar in the lungs than one filtered cigarette. Marijuana users experience the same health problems as tobacco smokers, such as bronchitis, emphysema and bronchial asthma. Extended use increases risk of lung disease and reproductive system abnormalities. Marijuana also effects the bodys ability to combat illness.

Effects of Marijuana on the Brain
THC effects the part of the brain that controls learning, memory, emotions and motivation. Marijuana destroys the nerve cells controling these functions. As a result, the marijuana user will experience memory loss and learning difficulties.

Recent research findings also indicate that long-term use of marijuana produces the damage in the brain similar to those seen after long-term use of other major drugs of abuse.

Effects on the Lungs
Someone who smokes marijuana regularly may have many of the same respiratory problems that tobacco smokers have. These individuals may have daily cough and phlegm, symptoms of chronic bronchitis, and more frequent chest colds. Continuing to smoke marijuana can lead to injured or destroyed lung tissue.

Myth: Marijuana is safer to smoke than cigarettes
Fact: Cancer of the respiratory tract and lungs may also be promoted by marijuana smoke. A study comparing 173 cancer patients and 176 healthy individuals produced strong evidence that smoking marijuana increases the likelihood of developing cancer of the head or neck, and the more marijuana smoked the greater the increase. Marijuana smoking doubled or tripled the risk of these cancers!

Marijuana use may cause cancer of the lungs and other parts of the respiratory tract because it contains irritants and cancer causing agents. In fact, marijuana smoke contains four times as many cancer-causing agents than cigarettes. THC also contains high levels of a chemical that increases the risk of cancer.

Marijuana users usually inhale more deeply and hold their breath longer than tobacco smokers do, which increases the lungs exposure to the cancer causing agents. Puff for puff, marijuana smoke is more hazardous to your health than cigarette smoke.

Marijuana use has been shown to increase users difficulty in trying to quit smoking tobacco. This was recently reported in a study comparing smoking cessation in adults who smoked both marijuana and tobacco with those who smoked only tobacco. The relationship between marijuana use and continued smoking was particularly strong in those who smoked marijuana daily at the time of the initial interview and 13 years prior to the follow-up interview.

A study of 450 individuals found that people who smoke marijuana frequently but do not smoke tobacco have more health problems and miss more days of work than nonsmokers do. Many of the extra sick days used by the marijuana smokers in the study were due to respiratory illnesses.

Effects on Heart Rate and Blood Pressure
A persons risk of heart attack during the first hour after smoking marijuana is four times his or her usual risk. Marijuana raises blood pressure and the heart rate. This reduces the ability of the blood to carry oxygen through the body.

Recent studies have shown that smoking marijuana while using cocaine causes an increase in the heart rate by nearly 49 beats a minute. In such an instance, physical exertion can increase the heart rate even more, causing a heart attack.

Effects of Heavy Marijuana Use on Learning and Social Behavior
A study of college students has shown that attention, memory and learning were impaired after discontinuing the use of marijuana for 24 hours.

These studies has shown that marijuana users below the college age achieve low grades in school, are more prone to get in trouble with the law, have poor relationships with their parents and associate mostly with other friends who use drugs.

Research also shows that toddlers whose parents use marijuana are more prone to suck their thumbs and have temper tantrums than other toddlers of non-smoking parents.

Effects on Pregnancy
Any drug of abuse can effect a mothers health during pregnancy, and this is a time when she should take special care of herself. Drugs of abuse may interfere with proper eating habits and rest, which can effect her bodys ability to combat disease.

Some studies have found that babies born to mothers who used marijuana during pregnancy were smaller than those born to mothers who did not use the drug. In general, smaller babies are more likely to develop health problems.

A nursing mother who uses marijuana passes some of the THC to the baby in her breast milk. Research indicates that the use of marijuana by a mother during the first month of breast-feeding can impair the infants ability to control their muscles.

Addictive Potential
Myth: Marijuana is not addicting
Fact: Long-term marijuana use can lead to addiction. In 1999, more than 220,0000 people entering drug abuse treatment programs reported that marijuana was their primary drug of abuse.

Along with craving, withdrawal symptoms can make it hard for long-term marijuana smokers to stop using the drug. People trying to quit report they experience irritability, difficulty sleeping, and anxiety. They also appear to have increased aggression.



Safer, eh? 