I cant guarantee youll lose 43 pounds in your time frame, but you could come close.  The answer is eat healthy, and watch your portions.  Im involved right now with LA Weight Loss, and Im eating healthy food, and losing weight.  The secrets are:  watch your portions, eat healthy and (in my case) avoid the gummy bears!  I love them.  Anyway, I have a small salad nearly every day with fresh usually organic stuff like cucumbers, tomatoes, sliced carrots, and usually spinache (tastier) salad rather than lettuce which is mostly tasteless water.  Then try maybe one pieceof fruit each morning, and be sure to take a few healthy vitamins (Vitamin c, E, and jprobably clcium - all womken need that).  Drink lots of water, lots of water (64 ounches a day) and if you have trouble with that, try adding a little Crystal Light (sugar free) for flavor, but you need water, not other liquids.  Then for lunch a salad, and try eating one yogurt each day.   I can have one dairy per day, and thats what I choose.  For protein try Soy yogurt.  One really good brand is Silk, another is called Soy yogurt.  I can have four of those per day, if I want.  But I dont.  Instead of meat, which is heavy, and full of drugs that were added to the cow originally, try some tofu.  Its higher in protein, and has less processing.  You can find baked tofu in the health food section of most grocery stores, or learn how to cook it yourself.  Its easy.  Get some recipes online.  Drink lots and lots of water.  And walk, or do some other exercise, daily.  If you dont exercise, all the diets in the world wont help that much.  Go walking, and take your tape player with you.  Play some jazzy music and it will make you feel more like walking.  Dont sit around watching t.v. a lot.  Keep busy.  And eat three regular small meals a day.  If you get hungry, want a little snack, try munching on a carrot stick or a cucumber.  Great in this hot weather.  Learn to appreciate rice cakes, and tortillas, lower in calories.  You can add some sugar free jam (just a little) or a tablespoon of peanut butter (protein) for flavor.  I make my own veggie subs.  Two pieces of toasted bread, and lots of raw veggies, and a dash of mustard.  Yummy!  Almost as good as Subways.  Bottom line:  small portions, do some walking, drink lots of water.  And dont just do this until you lose weight.  This should be a lifetime eating habit.  Good luck!  Karen 