A FEW THINGS TO REMEMBER:
The correct way to burn fat and stay healthy is to burn more calories than you consume
You need to make sure you are eating healthy foods while still excercising
If you have a big appetite drink plenty of water so that you will feel full but not consume calories
But you should always eat
If you start to skip meals you will only be more hungry at your next meal and probably eat way too much
Remember, the average persons stomach is as big as a slice of pizza scrunched up into a ball
So you shouldnt be putting more food into your stomach than what fits
Also, it takes aproximately 15-20 minutes for your brain to realize that you are full
so eat slower and you will realize sooner when you are not hungry anymore

ALSO....
i found this artical called "50 Habits of "Naturally Thin" People
How to get Started:Decide how much you want to loose and see how many calories a day it will take to make it happen by years end.Then, work into your routines however many of these eating tweaks and exercises you need to achieve your goal.
Slash 250 cal.s a day to lose about 25 lbs. in a year, Slash 500 cal.s to loose 50 pounds.
This is based on a 150-pound person: you may need to cut more/ fewer calories depending on ur weight, age & gender. It also assumes your normal calorie intake essentially stays the same and your weight is stable.
* Im only going to give you the ones that are most helpful and burn calories. If you want more then email me*
1.Wake-up Workout - When your eyes open, sit up slwoly w/out using ur hands. W/ legs straight out, lean forward until u feel a gentle stretch in ur back & hamstrings. Hold. Then, Using ur abs, lower urself flat. Rest & repeat 2 more times. BURNS 10
2. Balance Booster - While u brush ur teeth, alternate standing on 1 leg as u switch mouth quadrants(every 30 seconds). BURNS 10
3.Be a Ballerina - As ur coffee drips, stand sideways, put 1 hand on the counter, and lift the outside leg straigh out in front of u, keeping it extended. With upper body straight, hold for a few sec.s and move it to the side: hold and extend it behind u. Do 5x on each leg. BURNS 10
4. Talk It UP - Every time u grab the phone, stand up & pace around. BURNS 50
5. Carry Some Weight - When ur grocery Shopping/ running erands, wear a backpack with 5-10 lbs bag of sugar inside to increase resistance & burn more calories. Add purchases to ur load as it becomes easier. BURNS 20 (FOR AN HOUR OF ERRANDS)
6.Pump at the Pump - While ur getting gas, With 1 hand on ur car, Stand on the balls of ur feet & slowly rise up & down for as long as it takes to fill ur tank. BURNS 10
7. Shop till the Pounds Drop - at the mall try on at least 10 outfits- pants and shirts.BURNS 60
8. Jog for Junk Mail - For every piece of junk mail u get each day, do 1 lap around ur house/ building, / up & down a flight of stairs. BURNS 35-140
9. Play Footsie - After Dinner, while u are sitting at the table, extend your right leg out & slowly bend it up & down, squeezing & holding in the up position for at least 5 sec.s. Repeat 5x for each leg. BURNS 10
10.Ease into Evening - sitting with feet uncrossed, grab ur wrists & raise ur hands above ur head to lengthen the spine. Take a deep breath in as u reach & hold the position, breathing slowly in & out for 20 sec.s, taking longer on the exhale. BURNS 5
11. Sing a Song - Spend sunday morning belting it out in the church choir. BURNS 70 PER SERVICE
12. Catch This! -
Spend 30 min tossing a ball or a frisbee with ur kid/dog BURNS 90
13. Make Whoopee - Instead of a bowl of ice cream as a bedtime snack, have a robust tussle with your spouse. BURNS 300

Good Luck!! 