the actual process of getting braces doesnt hurt. It is wearing them that hurts. the wire that connects all of the brackets gets snipped off at the very back of your mouth but it can still poke you. getting used to the brackets on your teeth while they are rubbing your lips on the inside. The wire squeezes the brackets to bring your teeth in alignment and that can be painful. Having them taken off is kind of crappy too. They pull off the wire and that doesnt hurt. The brackets pop off REALLY easy. The doctor pinches the bracket at the top and the bottom of the bracket with a pair of pliers. They brakcets fold and pop off of your teeth. It doesnt really hurt. Then they take another pair of pliers and scrape off the glue. That it the painful part. The pain is bearable though. Just go and get braces because you will regret it later if you dont. I had two sets of braces for two years ech and in that time they made a lot of technoligical advancement that made braces more comfortable the second time around.

I read some of the other answers and I feel that I have to clarify. Braces, MOST OF THE TIME are only for 2-3 years, usually closer to 2. anything over 3 years is an extreme case. Before you have the actual braces put on, they put in what is called a palatal expander, on most people. It expands the space in between the teeth (a.k.a the pallate)  so that your braces will fit. then they take that off and put on the braces. After a while you have to wear rubber bands that connect from the top and the bottom Every day. I have a trick for that. And it works. I would never wear those stupid rubber bands because I would just plain forget. So a week before my next appointment, I would put four bands on my teeth for seven night and take a bunch of Tylenol so that I would go to sleep and not feel pain. It brings your teeth to wear they should be a lot faster than doing one band a day. I would get up the next day and take them out and wear four more the next night. If I forgot to do it, I would do 7 bands at night for four nights. You will feel sore in the morning more from having your teeth bound together over night than from the pull of the bands. Just take one or two tylenol and you will be fine. 